---
title: NeIC’s Dellingr project is ending
summary: ”Lorem ipsum”
photo: "/assets/images/latest-news-4.png"
---

NeIC’s Dellingr project is ending
===============================

The year 2019 is soon coming to its end. As we’re leaving this year - and the whole decade - behind, we’re also saying goodbye to a few NeIC projects that are expiring. One of the soon-to-be-completed projects is [Dellingr]( https://neic.no/dellingr/). This article allows us to look back at what’s been done and outline Dellingr’s significance to the Nordics. The text is written in collaboration with Dellingr’s project leader, <b>John White</b>. 

### What is Dellingr?

In Norse mythology, the name Dellingr refers to a god who, assumingly, is the personified dawn (read more on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dellingr)). The Dellingr project, however, was launched in 2017 to explore and test whether high-performance computing resources can be shared and exchanged between countries and across borders. 

Initially, the project idea was postulated by the NeIC board. "There was a Phase 1 project that took place during the first two quarters of 2017 that established whether countries would be interested in sharing. Based on the positive outcome for Phase 1, Phase 2 was soon kicked off", tells John White. It was decided that the project would be in execution from the third quarter of 2017 to the first of 2020. 

### Project results

WHAT ARE THE MAIN ACHIEVEMENTS OF THIS PROJECT? 1–2 sentences.

Documents from both Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the project have been uploaded to [the Dellingr wiki page](https://wiki.neic.no/wiki/Dellingr#Phase_1). Since the Dellingr project plan did not include academic publications nor conferences as outputs, the only outputs are the project documents. 

During the project, two pilots have been run to offer resources to researchers free of charge. A report about the usage statistics in the first Pilot project can be accessed [here](https://wiki.neic.no/w/ext/img_auth.php/4/41/Dellingr-DO2-final.pdf).

White reminds that they are currently running the second pilot which can be accessed on [https://share.neic.no](https://share.neic.no). "This is a running service that can be used to register other services, and they can be verified for compliance with the EOSC Service Description Template", White explains. 

Apart from the documents mentioned above, there are some publications which acknowledge the first Dellingr pilot. These documents have been gathered [here](https://wiki.neic.no/int/Pilot_1_Questions_to_participants#Publications_from_1st_pilot).

### What now?

According to John White, the Delling project has so far fulfilled the goals set for it. Whether resource sharing on a semi-permanent basis will be set up is to be seen. There are still fundamental political and legal issues to be dealt with. National ministries are bound legally to fund national researchers with some proportion of cross-border work. “We have also had an expert opinion on the VAT issues, but this can never really be known until challenged in a court”, White says. 

White also thinks that if EOSC is planning to share resources, they should use the Dellingr documents. The Dellingr project is linked to the LUMI proposal to the NeIC open call.
