---
title: Invitation for e-infrastructure collaboration
summary: Nordic e-Infrastructure Collaboration (NeIC) invites consortia consisting of e-infrastructure providers, developers, researchers and related communities around the Nordic region to propose collaboration projects within e-infrastructure (digital infrastructure) of joint Nordic interest. The proposals may also be initiated by the NeIC Provider Forum.
photo: "/assets/images/latest-news-11.png"
---

Invitation for e-infrastructure collaboration
===============================

### PURPOSE OF THE CALL
Nordic e-Infrastructure Collaboration (NeIC) invites consortia consisting of e-infrastructure providers, developers, researchers and related communities around the Nordic region to propose collaboration projects within e-infrastructure (digital infrastructure) of joint Nordic interest. The proposals may also be initiated by the NeIC Provider Forum.

NeIC facilitates collaboration within e-infrastructure to foster Nordic research excellence. E-infrastructure provides the environment to handle the digital components of the research process.  The proposed collaboration may include development of e-infrastructure solutions supporting open science or exploring new technologies, sharing knowledge or offering training to improve the use of current and future e-infrastructure capabilities. Examples of collaborative projects NeIC has supported before, are provided on [NeIC website](https://neic.no/activities/). Particular topics of interest could relate to data centric challenges. Examples may include but are not limited to health, registry, biomedical or genomic data, artificial intelligence (AI) or machine learning (ML), authentication and authorisation infrastructure (AAI), quantum computing, cybersecurity.

### ELIGIBILITY TO APPLY 
Participation from at least three countries, of which one can be other than a Nordic country or Estonia, is required. The proposed collaboration project may include partners from beyond the Nordic region. Current NeIC project consortia may apply if their current project ends no later than in the first half of 2021.

### AVAILABLE FUNDING
NeIC’s current funding situation suggests allowing for starting one or two development projects per year, plus possibly a few pre-studies. Projects are developed in collaboration with researchers and national institutions from participating countries on a cost-sharing basis (see below, section NeIC collaboration models). NeIC will initiate contract negotiations contacting the successful proposers regarding further details regarding budgets and contract shortly after the decision has been taken.

### NEIC COLLABORATION MODELS
#### Development project
Typical provider-oriented development projects aim at developing services for a wide range of research problems and the typical project team consists of service providers. A typical community-oriented development project aims at developing e-infrastructure services targeted for one or more significant area of science. The development project proposed may contain elements of both provider-oriented and community-oriented development projects. The proposers are encouraged to contact the e-infrastructure providers of the participating countries prior to submitting the proposal, especially if the execution of the project requires computational or data management resources or other services from the e-infrastructure providers. In the preparation of the development project plan, the proposers should also consider how the anticipated services and/or gained competences would be sustained after the completion of the project.

A typical development project could have a duration of up to three years with a budget covering a project manager at 25-50% FTE fully funded by NeIC, 4-9 FTEs funded 50/50% by NeIC and partners and some additional travel/meeting expenses.
The proposers are required to submit letters of commitment from the management of the partner organisations as part of the proposal.

NeIC applies the [Tieto PPS model for the project steering](https://wiki.neic.no/wiki/Project_process). [The project manager](https://wiki.neic.no/wiki/Project_organization#Project_manager) is generally appointed by NeIC.

#### Community-forming pre-study or workshop
The pre-study or workshop could aim at Nordic teams-in-formation to explore synergies of common e-infrastructure solutions and/or the potential to scope a future development project.

A typical pre-study could have a duration of 6-12 months and a budget of maximum 200,000 NOK to cover meeting costs and coordination. A typical budget for a workshop could be 50,000 NOK. The funding will be given to the partner who coordinates the pre-study or workshop.  The budget needed for the activities must be described in the proposal. After completion of the pre-study or workshop, NeIC will request a report on the use of funding. The pre-study could start or workshop be organised during the fall 2020. 

### HOW TO APPLY
Proposers must submit their proposal for development project electronically through the NordForsk application portal no later than 26 February 2020 at 13:00 CET.

[Development project](https://funding.nordforsk.org/portal/#call/1765)<br>
[Pre-study or workshop](https://funding.nordforsk.org/portal/#call/1764)

### GUIDELINES FOR PROPOSING A COLLABORATION PROJECT
Guidelines are also available in the NordForsk application portal.

#### Development project
* [call text for development project](https://wiki.neic.no/w/ext/img_auth.php/d/d4/FINAL_call_text_dev_project.pdf)
* [guidelines for development project plan](https://wiki.neic.no/w/ext/img_auth.php/0/0b/Dev_project_plan_guidelines.pdf)
* [guidelines for budget and resources section](https://wiki.neic.no/w/ext/img_auth.php/0/0c/Dev_project_budget_guidelines.pdf)
* [guidelines for the tools and services section](https://wiki.neic.no/w/ext/img_auth.php/1/1f/Dev_project_tools_services_guidelines.pdf)

Other relevant documents the proposers should familiarise themselves with 
* [NeIC strategy](https://wiki.neic.no/wiki/NeIC_Community_Wiki#Strategy)
* [development project plan template](https://wiki.neic.no/w/ext/img_auth.php/9/9c/Dev_project_plan_template.pdf)
* [external expert review report](https://wiki.neic.no/w/ext/img_auth.php/a/a6/Dev_project_review_report_template_final.pdf)

#### Pre-study or workshop
* [call text for community-forming pre-study or workshop](https://wiki.neic.no/w/ext/img_auth.php/3/3a/FINAL_call_text_pre-study.pdf)
* [guidelines for pre-study or workshop project plan](https://wiki.neic.no/w/ext/img_auth.php/c/cc/Pre-study_plan_guidelines.pdf)

Other relevant documents the proposers should familiarise themselves with 
* [NeIC strategy](https://wiki.neic.no/wiki/NeIC_Community_Wiki#Strategy)

### FURTHER INFORMATION AND CONTACTS
For more information about the collaborative work that NeIC facilitates or the open invitation process, please do not hesitate to contact us: <neic-helpdesk@neic.no>.
### TECHNICAL SUPPORT
For technical support with the application portal, contact <support@nordforsk.org>.

