---
title: NeIC will contribute to the building of LUMI-Q
summary: The EuroHPC JU has selected six sites across the European Union to host and operate new European quantum computers. The LUMI-Q project proposal is among the ones that were chosen and will bring together participants from nine countries, including most NeIC countries.
photo: /assets/images/latest-news-30.png
---

 NeIC will contribute to the building of LUMI-Q
===========================

The European High-Performance Computing Joint Undertaking (EuroHPC JU) has selected six sites across the European Union to host and operate new European quantum computers. The LUMI-Q project proposal is among the ones that were chosen, and the consortium will build a quantum computer located in Czechia.

## The LUMI-Q consortium builds on the success of the LUMI consortium

LUMI-Q is a collaborative project that brings together participants from 14 organisations in nine countries, including Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. It will set up, operate, and make a new European quantum computer available for the entire EuroHPC user base. The computer, whose name is yet to be announced, will be located at the IT4Innovations National Supercomputing Centre in Ostrava. 

The LUMI-Q consortium follows the work of the successful LUMI consortium which built and now operates Europe’s most powerful pre-exascale supercomputer EuroHPC LUMI (Large Unified Modern Infrastructure). LUMI is located in CSC - IT Center for Science’s data centre in Kajaani, Finland. The members of LUMI-Q are some of the existing members of the LUMI consortium, namely Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Poland, Norway, and Belgium, and the project coordinator, Czechia, joined by the Netherlands and Germany. 

– The success of the LUMI-Q proposal with the broad participation from the Nordic countries shows that we are competitive with the rest of Europe. This project will help connect our different on-going activities on Quantum Computing and make them even stronger, thereby providing a clear added value for all, says **Hans Eide**, Senior Advisor at Sigma2 and current chair of the NeIC board.

## Key solutions developed in NeIC’s Puhuri and NordIQuEst

Several of NeIC’s partner organisations are members of the LUMI-Q consortium: 
* Sigma2 AS, Simula Research Lab and SINTEF AS from Norway, 
* CSC - IT Center for Science Ltd. and VTT Technical Research Center of Finland Ltd. from Finland, 
* Chalmers University of Technology from Sweden, and 
* Danish Technical University from Denmark.  

NeIC as an organisation is not a formal partner in the consortium but will participate in the steering of the project through Sigma2. NeIC will contribute to developing the new infrastructure through two projects, Puhuri and NordIQuEst, both of which also participated in the writing of the successful LUMI-Q proposal. The connection with these NeIC projects means that several other NeIC partners and Nordic institutions are involved in LUMI-Q. The partners that are not members in the consortium but participate through Puhuri and NordIQuEst are University of Iceland, University of Tartu, Lund University, SNIC and DeiC. 

With the two projects, NeIC will deliver infrastructure solutions that are key in setting up the environment and managing access control. NordIQuEst, with its focus on usability and expertise in the development of quantum software stacks will bring important skills on the utilisation of LUMI-Q. Puhuri will deliver its authentication and authorisation infrastructure (AAI) and its utilisation reporting tool, thereby facilitating the use of LUMI-Q.

—---

[Read the LUMI-Q announcement on Sigma2’s web site](https://www.sigma2.no/czechia-will-host-european-lumi-q-quantum-computer)